---
title: "git@roche"
bg: purple
color: white
fa-icon: user-md
---

# Git at roche
<a name="rochegit" />

## Simple approach

As an RWDS analyst, the simplest way to use github is to simply push your comments in a single master branch.

{% include simpleflow.html %}

## Using git to it's full potential

Git is an incredibly flexible toolset, and so any suggestions here are simply suggestions. The only thing to keep in mind is the basic tenents of good coding:

1. You keep things literate, so someone can look at your workflow and understand each step without needing to talk to you.
2. See above.

See the flow section of this document for examples of how to branch. If you want to build more robust outputs, you can also have github to the builds (i.e. github runs your R script), or at a minimum have github deploy your work. This means that there is a log of when you outputs were available - so you know exactly what code derived the output on the webserver at anytime historically.

## Organising repos
<a name="org" />

RWDS has some *organisations* on github, which are essentially shared areas for placing similar repos. The RWDS organisations, and what they exist for, is listed below.

By default, members of RWDS are 'developers' or 'members' of organistions. By default they will have read access to all repos in RWDS organisations. RWDS members should be aware of how to edit their repos privacy settings, and only add people from outside RWDS on a repo by repo basis.

* **RWDS-jira**
    + Storing code from JIRA projects. Each repo here is named by JIRA, and created with the JIRA ticket.
    + We do not manually init repos here.
    + RWDS JIRA tickets are *RWDS_xxx*, where *xxx* is the ticket number. FIRM tickets are *FIRM_xxx*.
* **RWDS-adhoc**
    + Projects not part of a single JIRA ticket go here.
    + **Please name your repo well, and add a description (this is not the readme, but the searchable github meta data)**
    + If this project involves multiple jira tickets, or is tangical to one, please mention the jira number in the description (the repo meta data, which is distinct from the README)
    + The reason I emphasise putting it in the description (metadata) is the search function currently doesn't extend to file contents when searching across repos (I believe/hope this will change to match github.com).
* **RWDS-codeshare**
    + Code which we wish to share and use across projects goes here.
    + Note that this area is the most likely to be 'browsed' by external people, so the privacy settings can be used to hide code not ready for sharing outside of RWDS.
* **RWDS-sme**
    + For now this can be a test space, so the only repo will be the git and ipsos cheatsheets James wrote.
    + If we like it over google docs for SME stuff - potentially in the future SME documentation can go here.

## Code languages and git

* Python
    + There isn't one 'editor' like Rstudio that dominates for python, but regardless of whether using a text editor or an IDE like spyder, python `.py` files are just text, so you can use an IDE listed in the client section.
* RStudio
    + Full integration from within RStudio.
    + To launch, just create a new project, and either select the option to check out a repo (if code already exists in a repo) or init one with git. This will create a local repo (just in the folder, and not in git hub :octocat:), but you can easily point it at a remote repo. [More details here](https://support.rstudio.com/hc/en-us/articles/200532077-Version-Control-with-Git-and-SVN)
    + Despite the full integration of Rstudio and git, you can still switch between a client and the command line as you wish (just be careful of `.gitlock`s if you try and use two methods at once!)
    + You can get to the shell direct from the git window on Rstudio, so more complicated tasks are possible if you use the command line.
* SAS EG
    + SAS have their own version of git built into SAS EG 7.1, but it is not compatible with normal git and can only see EGP files (so lacks most of gits benefits).
    + As SAS EG files are properiety, and don't let git can't see the underlying code, the only way to use SAS EG and version control is to keep the programs external to the SAS EG file, and link them in. [An example SAS workflow is here](http://www.lexjansen.com/wuss/2012/94.pdf).
* Tableau
    + No integration.
    + Tableau files are xml, so while it will be very hard to understand what the changes are scanning the commits, if the commits themselves are well annotated, git can be used on tableau files.

## Github

Our github is at [github.roche.com](github.roche.com). You must be in the firewall to connect. Note that github.roche.com is different to github.com, in that our version physically lives on our network. Enterprise github (our version) often lags behind github.com, as they test things out there first.

From here you can see the repos you have permission to see, your groups, etc. Using this browser interface you can view and find files, as well as edit them, and do a variety of **git** commands like merging, branching, etc.

### Authenticating

You can usually connect to github via `SSH` or `https`. If you know what an `SSH` key is,
absolutely use that method. If not, `https` is a much simpler method, the only difference being `SSH` means passwords aren't required. You should see two options on github, so make sure to pick the link you want.

If using a client like Tower or Gitkraken (paid version only), you can use a 'token' (gitkraken seems to enjoy changing the name of this variable, so it might be called 'integration authentication', or 'personal access token'). This method gives you full integration with the github server, meaning not only do you not have to worry about passwords, but you can browse the server and find repos without needing to copy and paste links.
