---
title: "Clients"
bg: purple
color: white
fa-icon: desktop
---

### Git clients

James recomends *gitkraken* for windows, and *tower*, *gitkraken* or *gitup* on mac.

* Mac only
    + [Gitup](http://gitup.co/) - incredibly fast, clean and easy to use. Not many features, but is the client to use if you want to make really granular commits.
* Cross-platform
    + [Gitkraken](http://www.gitkraken.com/) - Currently the only modern and lightweight git client on windows. Has all the normal features, including integrated merge conflict fixer.
    + Tower - recently (Dec 2017) left beta on windows, and established on mac. This is the full-featured workhouse that puts Sourcetree to shame. Gitkraken though is evolving even faster, and has a simpler interface.
    + Git tortoise (in IT self-service) - oldschool git wrapper, but can integrate with right click allowing you to run some common commands with a few clicks.
    + Sourcetree (in IT self-service) - very slow, but gives almost complete control to do anything you can think of without needing the commandline.
    + Github desktop - Very similar to Sourcetree, but faster and more stable. A big drawback is the app is designed around using *Github.com* as where you keep your remote repos, and while it's possible to instead point at Gitlab, it can be confusing to set up. Also limited features relative to other clients.
* Windows
    + Git bash - not really a client, but including for completeness. This is a generally unpleasent emulation of the terminal on linux/mac, for command line control of git.
